# 1-0523-艾嘉诗云

**The Valiant Jurchen People**

The Jurchens originally came from the northeast regions of China. Their sudden rise of this ethnic group in the twelfth century inflicted quite a shock upon the situation of northern China. However, the Jin dynasty established by the Jurchen perished at the attack of Mongol hordes and the Jurchens were forced to return to their primitive tribe life. For a very long period this group remained unnoticed till Nurhaci united the Jurchen tribes and the valiant Jurchens once again came to rise. The Ming Empire was undergoing the post-prosperous decline back then, struggling with all kinds of social ills and conflicts. Under such circumstances the Jurchen could be fairly considered as a leader that was coming backing to the arena of history.

Who were the Jurchens? How could they manage to rise twice in history and what had it undergone between the rise and fall?

The Jurchen was one of the most ancient ethnic groups of China, with a long history that could be dated back to Sushen, an ethnic group active during the Xia, Shang and Zhou Dynasties thousands of years ago. The Sushen evolved, changing their name from 'Yilou' in the Qin-Han period to 'Moji' in the Wei, Jin and Southern& Northern period, followed by Mohe in Sui, Tang and Five Dynasties and finally to Jurchen during the epoch of the Song and Yuan Dynasties. It was also in the epoch of Song-Yuan that the Jurchen became much more powerful after a long-term development and established the Jin Dynasty by conquering many of the tribes. Although the Jin Dynasty was destroyed by the Mongol hordes at last, the Jurchens would not possibly be forgotten since they had established a dynasty. 

The Jurchens were divided into three groups in the early period of the Ming Dynasty and the three groups were: the Jianzhou Jurchens, inhabited the area stretching from the east boarder of Fushun to the east and north of the Changbai Mountain and the north of the Yalu river; the Haixi Jurchens, who inhabited the area stretching from the north border of Kaiyuan, Liaoning to the great turn of the midstream of Songhua River; and the Wild Jurchens, who inhabited around the midstream of the Songhua River and Heilong River. The Jianzhou Jurchens, being near to the Weisuos \(which as a term would be explained later\) of Liaodong and greatly influenced by the culture and economy of the Han people, became the most advanced group of the three. And like many of the empires in the central plain, Jianzhou Jurchen had its own myth about its origin. The myth goes like this: there was a fairy named Forcuren. One day, when she was bathing in the lake located in northeast Changbai Mountain, she fell pregnant after eating a red fruit brought by a divine bird. Later, she gave birth to a boy, and the boy was considered the ancestor of Manchuria. The myth showed the unusual origin of Jianzhou Jurchen, and manifested to the world its heaven-driven ambition to rise as a magnificent power.

The Ming government had perceived the  expanding ambition of the Jurchens, who now dominated the northeast China. The government decided to reinforce its jurisdiction over the Jurchens by introducing the system of ruling by Jimi Weisuo instead of declaring war against them. The so-called Jimi Weisuo system works like this: the Ming government made the chieftains of the Jurchen settlements governor, commander, district head and such, and gave them official seal. These chieftains led the Weisuo respectively and paid tribute to the imperial court regularly. Weisuo referred to military unit: Wei and Suo were two different units and each contained different numbers of people. The most influential one of all the Jimi Wuisuos was Jianzhou Three Wei. The chieftain of Jianzhou Jurchens, Ahucu was appointed commander of Jianzhou Wei, and another chieftain Möngke Temür became the leader of Jianzhou Left Wei. There was a general and continuous immigration south of the Jianzhou Jurchens afterwards. When they finally settled down in Hetuala, now the Xinbin County in Liaoning province, the Ming government established a Jianzhou Right Wei among Jianzhou Left Wei. The two, along with Jianzhou Wei, were called “Jianzhou Three Wei”. The area they all shared—the Suzi River basin - became the cradleland of the Qing dynasty.

